https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-a-pivottable-to-analyze-worksheet-data-a9a84538-bfe9-40a9-a8e9-f99134456576

A PivotTable is a powerful tool to calculate, summarize, and analyze data 
that lets you see comparisons, patterns, and trends in your data. 

PivotTables work a little bit differently depending on what platform you are using to run Excel.

power pivot = tabla dinamica
modelado de datos
modelo de datos

para hacer reportes usamos tablas dinamicas
pivot table power bi

https://excelchamps.com/pivot-table/pivot-table-multiple-files/
Create a Pivot Table using Multiple Excel Files (Workbooks)

A Pivot Table is one of the best ways to summarize data.
You can create a summary report within seconds from thousands of rows of data

He has been following up with me for quite a long time.
that case creating a pivot table needs some extra effort for combining those multiple workbooks into one.

So in this post, I’d like to show you aw three steps process 
to create a pivot table by using data from multiple workbooks.

Steps to Create a Pivot Table using Data from Multiple Workbooks
Important: For this, we need to use the power query, so make sure you have the power query in your Excel version

And make sure you have all these files in a single folder.

Step 1 – Combine Files using Power Query
Go to Data Tab -> 
Get Transformation -> 
New Query -> 
From File -> 
From Folder.

combine & edit
combinar y transformar

And from that window, select the worksheet in with you data in all the workbooks. 
(Quick Tip: Make sure to have the same worksheet name in all the workbooks).

select the worksheet
Once you click OK and it will edit all the data from the workbooks into power query editor.

Step 2 – Prepare Data for the Pivot Table
Now, we need to make little changes in our data to make it ready for a pivot table.

If you look at the data we have got an extra column here with the name of the source file.

split column - by delimiter

From delimiter window, select custom, 
add “-” as a delimiter, 
and select “Left-most delimiter”.


rename
capitalize earch word

close and load

Click OK on insert pivot table window and you’ll get new pivot table in your workbook.
Congratulations! you have successfully created a new pivot table from different files.

Refresh Pivot Table

I’m sure you are thinking about how to refresh 
your pivot table 
after updating source files.

It’s simple. To refresh your pivot table you need to update the query 
so that the data from the source file can be updated in the source table 
which you created with power query. 
And after that, you can update your pivot table.

But, the simple and best way is to use refresh button from the data tab. 
It will refersh both (Pivot Table + Query).

data tab
refresh all

Important Points
Here I have listed some points which you need to remember while using power query for a pivot table.

Files should be in a single folder.
Data should be in the same format in all the files.
Otherwise, you need to make it usable after combining it.

The name of the worksheets should be the same in all the files.
Make sure you don’t have an error in any file. Or you can use the “Skip error files” option.
Don’t rename any workbook.

Must Read Next
How To Create a Pivot table Using VBA
How to Create a Pivot Table from Multiple Worksheets
30 Pivot Table Tips & Tricks
How to Add Custom Field and Item in a Pivot Table
How to Refresh All Pivot Tables at Once




































































