how to make reporsts with various workbooks in excel more easy
Quick Guide: Create a Report with Data from Multiple Workbooks

Reports let you collect and aggregate data from multiple worksheets or workbooks 
to create a combined view of data from different sources.

With reports, you can collect data from multiple places across Spreadsheet.com

Let’s say there are three different departments – Marketing, Finance, and Operations – 
in your organization, each with their own workbooks for tracking contacts and key personnel.

With reports, you can collect all of this information in a single location without having to merge workbooks
Each department can maintain their own records

Reports can be created in just a few steps. Let’s take a look.

Once you create a new report
you will automatically be prompted to select Source sheets
he worksheets from other workbooks whose data will populate your report
Toggle the checkboxes next to each sheet name to include them in your report

Reports can be created with data from any number of source sheets
and you can always edit your selection once your report has been created

After you select your Source sheets, you can select your report columns, 
the columns from your Source sheets that determine how your report is populated and organized.

Each row in the Display columns dialog is used to configure a different column in your report.

Assign the report column a name in the Report column name field
your source worksheets that will populate your column in the Source columns field at right
additional columns to your report by clicking the + New column button.

hacer una hoja que se llame reporte
cuando hace un reporte guardar las coordenadas

https://www.spreadsheet.com/guides/create-a-report-with-data-from-multiple-workbooks

nombre de la hoja      nombre del libro   nombre          compañia           posicion  email
contacts                inversores crm    patrick bass    tifany's bazaar    ceo      pbass@newblend.com    


A single column in a report can be populated with data from source sheet columns of different data types.

If you have three different email address columns – 
one as Text, 
another as Email, 
and a third created with Column formula

all of them can be included in the same report column.

Once you’ve selected your source sheets and columns

Reports also support the same sorting, filtering, and row groupWhen you’re ready to distribute a report to your team or other stakeholdersing options 
found in Spreadsheet.com Views so you can organize your reports to your liking.

Plus, reports are dynamic and will automatically update to reflect changes 
made in source sheets – no manual updating necessary.

When you’re ready to distribute a report to your team or other stakeholders
you can print it, export it as a PDF, or share it in its original format with Spreadsheet.com’s 
sharing and collaboration options.

The spreadsheet you know with the power of a database, built-in project management, no-code automations, integrations, 
and real-time updates.


copy column from another sheet excel without opening

https://www.ablebits.com/office-addins-blog/merge-multiple-excel-files-into-one/































